---
sidebar_position: 4
---

import ThemedImage from '@theme/ThemedImage';

# Withdrawals

Monomer supports ETH withdrawals through the Optimism Portal L1 contract. This is the canonical way to move assets from an OP Stack rollup chain to Ethereum.

:::note
For UX purposes, exiting an ORU via the canonical bridge is impractical and slow. But the exit mechanism must be available for security reasons.
:::

The withdrawal transaction flow is illustrated below. The lifecycle moves in the opposite direction than the Deposits flow - starting at the Cosmos-SDK appchain, processed by the Monomer `x/rollup` module and then Monomer's builder, and finally into the OP-Stack components on L1.

Again, this document focuses on Monomer specific modifiactions. Full documentation for the withdrawal flow is available in the [OP Stack specs](https://specs.optimism.io/protocol/withdrawals.html).

<ThemedImage
alt="Withdrawal workflow"
sources={{ light: '/img/withdrawals-light.png', dark: '/img/withdrawals-dark.png' }}
/>

## Initiating Withdrawals

The withdrawal process begins with an L2 user submitting a withdrawal transaction to the Cosmos-SDK appchain, with the same data used to initiate a withdrawal on a standard OP Stack. These messages are interpreted in parallel by the Monomer `x/rollup` module and the Monomer block builder.

### AppChain

On the AppChain, via custom message types and handlers from the `x/rollup` module, a withdrawal transaction results in a simple ETH burn on the L2, along with emission of corresponding `WithdrawalInitiated` and `BurnEth` events.

### Monomer.Builder

In order to finalize a withdrawal, the OP Stack relies on a Merkle proof of the withdrawal transaction. In order to reuse OP Stack components,

This proof is generated by the Monomer builder, which listens for the `WithdrawalInitiated` event and generates the necessary data.

## Proving Withdrawals

The next step for a user is to obtain a proof of the withdrawal transaction.

This proof is generated by the Monomer builder, and is a simple data structure that includes the withdrawal transaction data, the block number, and the block's Merkle proof.

## Submitting Withdrawals

With the withdrawal proof data, the user is now back to the L1 side of the OP Stack. The proof is submitted, and the withdrawal can be finalized after the rollup's challenge period.
